# Self-Assessment Essays

## Korey Huskonen

Our project is about making it easier to set up virtual computer networks for testing and for teaching students the principles of networking and cybersecurity. We want to use software-defined networking to create a virtualization platform that enables students to create virtual machines with just a few clicks. Setting up virtual networks is not trivial, and existing solutions do not provide a graphical way to view and easily configure entire networks. Moreover, setting up virtual machines using traditional software like VirtualBox is time- and memory-intensive. Our senior design idea gives us a chance to try to solve these problems. In the process, we’ll learn more about containerization technologies and pair our scripting skills with front-end design. Our project should make it easy for future students to learn networking.

Thanks to classes I’ve taken at UC like Information Security and Networking & Cloud Computing (CS4065), I have built a strong foundation in computer networking. However, most of these classes were purely theoretical and did not include a practical component. We never actually touched or configured a network. However, I have taken classes like Cyber Defense Overview (CS5155) and Penetration Testing (through the School of IT) where manipulating our own virtual networks was crucial to the course. But then we spent whole lectures just setting up our environment before we did anything interesting. While VirtualBox is a great free application, the plethora of different network configurations and advanced knowledge required to stand up a virtual network caused a significant amount of frustration. That’s where our project comes in.

My experiences as a co-op at GroupMe have also helped prepare me for a project centered around software-defined networking. As a Cyber Software Co-op, I’m familiar with the OSI Model, the TCP/IP stack, and the various protocols that comprise the Internet. I also have experience configuring software development and isolated testing environments using VirtualBox. I’ve gained experience working in Python and C++, both of which could be useful for this project. And in terms of non-technical skills, I’ve spent time interacting with users to gather feedback. Our project will be successful if it provides an easy, streamlined user interface that makes setting up virtual networks effortless. This will require extensive user experience testing. Moreover, it will be important to write clear documentation and be able to explain in person how to use our product. Fortunately, I’ve delivered several major presentations while on co-op, including one at a developer conference.

I’m excited to be part of this project because we have an idea for a tool that could be used right now in high school and college classrooms. We want to create an application with a simple and intuitive graphical interface that allows users to just drag and drop the virtual machines they want into a network. Users won’t have to worry about handling files, choosing the right network configuration, or making sure DHCP is working. Once they spin up a network in minutes, they will be able to move on to more interesting subjects (pinging, sniffing traffic, traceroutes, etc). As someone who is fascinated by networking and protocols, in addition to how hardware virtualization works, this project will be a great learning opportunity.

Our approach will be to use Docker to create lightweight instances of virtual machine-like containers. Because traditional virtual machines require an entire emulated operating system, whereas Docker images don’t, our solution should be less memory intensive. Moreover, our solution should be easily deployable over a network, so central servers that a school owns can provide the storage. In terms of my accomplishments, I expect to contribute mostly to the code that handles the containers/virtual images. I also hope to learn from my teammates about best practices for software collaboration. Our work will be done once our solution allows students to create fully functional virtual machines that live on a remote server.


## Samuel Buzas

High school students have difficulty understanding the complex system that is a computer network, from topologies, the OSI layers, or even it’s importance to them as future IT professionals. Our project is about creating a tool for teaching computer networking in a visual and interactive way. This parallels some of my previous coursework in the Computer Networks course. Most of the difficulty in computer networks come from visualizing the flow of traffic and the different manners in which the OSI layers interact. We believe better tooling can be created to help aid students comprehension of these topics.

Our team has all had very different development experiences over our college careers. From large household name software engineering to local software shops, each of us brings a unique perspective and a unique set of skills. Together we have total coverage of the stack from front to back. My work at Learn21 has given me a large set of tools for backend development. I learned about software architecture and had the chance to develop those skills be design an API from the ground up.

I have generally focused my coursework on industry relevant experience. Courses like Software Engineering (EECE 3093), Database Design (CS 4092), and Requirements Engineering(CS 5127) are great tools for a future career in industry. I expect to use my knowledge of requirements engineering and software engineering to help define the project and give us a strong documentation foundation. I believe that my experience in requirements engineering will help us define better goals and explore more of the possible solutions.

This project excites me for a few reasons. Firstly, I have always had an affinity for projects that contribute or focus on educational impact. Ever since using the online Khan Academy, I’ve been enamoured with online education and software. Education is one of the most valuable assets in the world and our internet driven future needs tools to help people access it. Secondly I’m excited by the team that I have to work with. We are all very skilled software engineers and I have no doubt in our ability to create a strong final product. Third, I’m excited to apply my knowledge of software architecture to a new project. I want to learn how to properly design a large scale system and effectively communicate that design with in a team.

Our initial project outline is to do field research by talking with educators and students about the difficulties they face when teaching and learning about networking. From there we will start to work on a set of requirements that will define all of the needs and desires we are trying to fill. After having a list of requirements to fulfill, we will start working on the different systems and services required to host and interact with our new system. Working in parallel we can mock the users experience out in the front end and the backfill functionality. I will judge my contribution based on peer feedback and deployability. This project will be complete when we are comfortable open-sourcing the MVP with a working front-end for users to tryout.


## Nick Rook

My senior design project is about providing primary school educators with a tool to be able to teach networking and security fundamentals to their students. Right now, cloud computing is all the rage. Sadly it is financially inaccessible to some organizations. While many organizations don’t have the funds to create cloud networks, they do have existing hardware that is going unused. We want to bridge this gap using our tool. It needs to provide the functionality of creating virtual networks utilizing a user friendly web interface.

The UC CS Curriculum provided me with many skills to help navigate through my senior design project. Networks and Cloud Computing (CS4065) gave me the skills to understand networks in order to create virtual ones. Software Engineering (EECE3093C) taught me how to work on a software project with other engineers. Requirements Engineering (CS5127) showed me the importance of planning before you start implementing. Technical and Scientific Writing (ENGL4092) helped to improve my written communication skills. Finally User Interfaces (CS5167) let me develop my skills in understanding how to create user friendly interfaces.

The CS Curriculum was not the only thing that helped me to develop the skills needed to be successful in this senior design project. My co-ops gave me a ton of real work experience too! My time as a software engineering co-op at Intuit taught me all about the latest and greatest technologies. It also taught me about modern Javascript and front end development through working on Quickbooks Online. Working for Toyota as an Enterprise Architecture Co-op taught me about how to effectively communicate with others. I got the chance to lead multiple technical training classes across the country.

I am motivated to participate in this project for a few reasons. I want to use this as a chance to further practice and demonstrate my front end design skills. I also want to make a project that will be useful to others. Finally, I want to improve my teamwork skills within the realm of software engineering projects. In order to design a solution to our senior design problem, we are getting together with people who are facing the problem of limited access to emulated computer networks. We are asking them for their opinions on how this tool could best benefit them.

I will be able to evaluate my contributions to this project by making sure the interface I help to design is actually user friendly and usable. I want to get opinions not only from my team but from the potential users of this software.We will be done when we create at least a prototype and are able to demonstrate it to our potential users. The expected results of our work will be a functioning prototype which can emulate virtual networks through an intuitive user interface. We will have done a good job if they find our project to be useful and intuitive. 
 

## Noah Bass

Our project is Virtuoso, an interactive web app and back-end system for education students on the fundamentals of networking and security. When high school students are introduced to the fundamentals of computing, it’s important to include the basics of networking and security. With our platform, students will gain better insight into the world of computing, networking, and security. Hopefully, with exposure to these concepts, our platform will open the door for a possible career for students in computer science. In order to complete this project and offer an educational platform, our project uses several core academic concepts. Included are software engineering, cloud computing, web development, UI/UX, and security.

Several courses have driven our decision to pursue this senior design project. My college curriculum experience has given me the chance to take courses that offer application-based experiences inside the classroom. Some courses that stand out are CS3003 Programming Languages, CS4065 Networking, EECE3093C Software Engineering, CS4092 Database Design, and CS5165 Cloud Computing. In Programming Languages, I was exposed to interesting and powerful concepts in computer programming, such as functional programming. When it came to building fundamental technical networking and security knowledge, the Networking course was helpful. The Software Engineering course was a great introduction into some technical and non-technical aspects of creating software in large scale settings. Finally, the Cloud Computing course gave us an introduction to core technical concepts in the ever growing and exciting field of cloud computing.

My co-op experiences have been diverse with numerous employers as software engineering co-ops. My first was with Siemens PLM Software where I was on a research and development team. The technical skills I  picked up on this co-op included web development and programming with C#. Later, I joined Astronomer, a data engineering company, for my second co-op. At Astronomer, I picked up technical skills to work with large amounts of data effectively with cloud computing and used software such as Node.js, Python, Docker, and Apache Airflow. Also, I learned some important non-technical skills such as project management and software engineering. In my next co-op at Intuit, I was on the TurboTax mobile app for iOS team. On this co-op, I learned skills in iOS programming, Swift and Objective-C, as well as Xcode. I also was able to hone my skills in software engineering and working interactively with a team. Finally, in my final co-op at Apple, I took my previous knowledge in cloud computing and Python to learn about big data analysis in order to gain insights from real-world systems data. With the senior design project, I expect to use many of the skills I picked up while on co-op, including software engineering on teams, project management, software design, C#, web development, and cloud computing. There are various technical and non-technical needs for our senior project, so I expect that my project management, design, and programming skills will come into play.

I’m excited to participate in this senior project for two core reasons. Firstly, it is a technical challenge that requires us as a group to use our collective experiences in a variety of different disciplines within computing. This includes areas such as network security to web design and UX/UI design. Secondly, this project can provide a meaningful impact and experience for the people that are our users of the project: educators and high school students. Our project is a platform that is free and open for people to better understand the fundamentals of networking and security in an interactive way. The education area opens up the potential for our senior project to make an impact on high school students and possibly propel students towards pursuing further topics in computer science.

In designing a solution, our project has three core components: an interactive, front-end web app, a back-end orchestrator for creating virtual machines (backed by containerization), and a back-end API for tracking state and bridging the gap between the web app and the back-end orchestrator. Our expected result is for high school students to engage and learn using our platform. Once all components of our design have been fully implemented + integrated and a demo is ready for use by real educators and high school students, we will know that our project is nearing completion. By having real educators and high school students interact with our software, we can take their feedback to create an even better platform. We will know whether or not we have done a good job based on the reactions and feedback from our users.

[⭠ Previous Page](06-ppt-slideshow.md) | [Next Page ⭢](08-professional-biographies.md)
