# Assessments: Final Self-Assessments (Spring)

## Korey Huskonen

My primary contribution to Virtuoso is the Virtual Network Creation Engine (VNCE), the component responsible for creating and configuring the actual “virtual devices” on the server. Developing the VNCE, which I dubbed Containeroso, provided ample opportunity to build upon the skills I mentioned in the fall, mainly applied networking and software containerization. Containeroso is ultimately a Python Flask app that manages the lifecycle of Docker containers and networks. Building it required drawing on my knowledge of graph theory (from classes like Discrete Structures), networking and iptables (from Cyber Defense), and API design (from Software Engineering). The major success of Containeroso is that it only uses Docker to emulate entire virtual networks, which makes the creation and teardown of these networks easy and artifact-free. However, it took a significant amount of research before I arrived at this Docker-only solution, because while Docker’s built-in networking features are robust, they are not suited for emulating networks of arbitrary complexity. For example, you cannot connect two “Docker networks” together, and route traffic across their domains. But Containeroso can. 

Our group accomplished what we set out to build: an app that lets you create and interact with virtual networks from an easy-to-use, intuitive web interface. It’s simple, it works, and it can be used to teach networking fundamentals. Throughout this process, I’ve had the opportunity to learn from my knowledgeable peers about modern web app design and best practices. I’ve learned that working with a group on a large software project requires discipline and frequent communication. I’ve also learned that while modern programming tools like Git and Docker enable you to develop independently and easily integrate different team members’ code modules, this process is still not trivial. Each of us made valuable contributions to the project, and I enjoyed working with this team. 

## Samuel Buzas

My contributions to the Virtuoso project were mostly technical. I worked with Noah to plan and create our architecture. This involved a fair amount of research into the existing tooling and platforms available to us. I learned a great deal about proper API design and attempted to apply it to our project. My main contribution to the project was our network service, which serves as the persistence service for network domain documents.

When writing on the Network Service, I attempted to use Typescript. I found it to be a major departure from the tooling and features I was accustomed to. I found it was to much work to learn about the JavaScript ecosystem and produce high-quality code at the same time. I chose to re-write the service in Java, using the spring framework. Luckily our architecture choices made that rewrite possible. My success was growing my API design skills and sharing that skill with fellow students through the ACM. I applied my skills in my service, making it well structured and evolvable. My obstacle was a lack of knowledge about the Javascript development ecosystem. This prevented me from working efficiently, making informed decisions, and contributed to burnout.

Our group set out to create a fully-functional web platform for interactively learning about computer networks. While we didn't deliver the entire package, we have developed a solid proof-of-concept. From this experience, I've learned that real software projects are extremely complex. In greenfield projects, where everything is being made from scratch, it can be hard to make choices do the sheer amount of options available. We did learn the value of sticking to an MVP plan and making working software first. 

I'm content with what we have created with our project. I know that it's not completely ready for real usage, but it's set up in a way that will encourage me to revisit it in the future. I feel that I played my part in helping to plan an motivate the group during the fall. I guided us through the initial architecture and helped my teammates understand the components we would need. I do feel that during the spring semester I dropped the ball. The stresses of life got to me and instead of continuing to work I just sort of shut down. There is a lesson to be learned about developer burnout and making sure to balance your schedule to avoid it. I'd like to give special thanks to Noah Bass, for really leading the team overall. He helped us stay on task, kept us creative, and put in many hours coding too.


## Nick Rook

My main contribution was to design and implement the frontend of Virtuoso. The first skill I built to do this was learning a design tool called Figma. This allowed me to create visual mockups of the user interface I would later create in a time efficient manner. Being able to move quickly with designs made it easy to test and iterate designs with potential users. The second skill I built was how to create static and dynamic sites using Gatsby and React.js. Gatsby is a react framework which allows me to implement a fast frontend website with a small bundle size. 

The main obstacles I faced were in getting a design settled and figuring out how to implement those designs. Designing a user interface requires a lot of back and forth between me and my potential users. I needed to gain a deep understanding of how both teachers and students would be using Virtuoso to create a design that was easy for them to understand and follow. Then once the design was finalized, building out the app had its own challenges. I struggled for a while to implement a drag and drop diagramming tool to model computer networks. Working past my obstacles, my successes were in acquiring the new skills I needed as well as building a fully functioning user interface.

Our group managed to accomplish creating a prototype for an application that can be used by both educators and students to learn more about computer networking. This includes an integrated frontend user interface on top of a host of individual services to simulate computer networking actions. We learned that programming in a team can be difficult, but allows us to accomplish more than any one person could do alone. One of the successes we had was in splitting the work into different individual services. This allowed us to work together to build out a connected application without stepping on each other's toes. One of the failures we faced was in the initial communication between services. No one created documentation at first for how to use their services which made it difficult to integrate them.

I believe that my efforts on the project were equal to those of my teammates. We each took a different feature of the final application and were able to build them out based on our individual skills. When it came to planning and each assignment, we all got together, either virtually or in person, to complete the tasks. I want to recognize Noah for helping to build out documentation for our services. Without that, integrating our services together would have been a nightmare.


## Noah Bass

My individual contributions for project Virtuoso included many technical and non-technical aspects. Technically, I contributed architecture considerations and discussion towards each of the microservices during the design of the project to ensure our microservice strategy was well-planned before implementation. I also contributed code towards several of the microservices in various languages (ex: Python and JavaScript), including the Web SSH service, the Authentication Service, and the API Gateway, as well as integrated with other microservices. Non-technically, I contributed towards the project management of Virtuoso to organize tasks, consider task dependencies, and ensure tasks were on track.

From my initial assessment last Fall, I applied my back-end software engineering skills in helping the build the various microservices, including Node.js, Python, MongoDB, and Docker, as well as designing back-end APIs and working with data. Through this project, I learned about the proper way to design architectures for applications, how to solve problems with microservices, and how to implement independent microservices that work together to perform a specific task. The competencies I built for myself in the project included knowing how to go about building well-planned and well-structured applications and knowing how and when to make decisions when planning and building complex software. My successes in the project included designing and building out various independent microservices for Virtuoso that work together, as well as leading project management for the development of Virtuoso. My obstacles included learning how to simulate interaction with code and microservices that haven’t yet been written, but will exist in the future, as well as learning how to go about testing microservices that were written independently, but should work together to accomplish a shared task.

---

[⭠ Previous Page](07a-initial-self-assessments.md) | [Next Page ⭢](#)
