# Assignment 3 - Korey Huskonen

Our project is about making it easier to set up virtual computer networks for testing and for teaching students the principles of networking and cybersecurity. We want to use software-defined networking to create a virtualization platform that enables students to create virtual machines with just a few clicks. Setting up virtual networks is not trivial, and existing solutions do not provide a graphical way to view and easily configure entire networks. Moreover, setting up virtual machines using traditional software like VirtualBox is time- and memory-intensive. Our senior design idea gives us a chance to try to solve these problems. In the process, we’ll learn more about containerization technologies and pair our scripting skills with front-end design. Our project should make it easy for future students to learn networking.

Thanks to classes I’ve taken at UC like Information Security and Networking & Cloud Computing (CS4065), I have built a strong foundation in computer networking. However, most of these classes were purely theoretical and did not include a practical component. We never actually touched or configured a network. However, I have taken classes like Cyber Defense Overview (CS5155) and Penetration Testing (through the School of IT) where manipulating our own virtual networks was crucial to the course. But then we spent whole lectures just setting up our environment before we did anything interesting. While VirtualBox is a great free application, the plethora of different network configurations and advanced knowledge required to stand up a virtual network caused a significant amount of frustration. That’s where our project comes in.

My experiences as a co-op at GroupMe have also helped prepare me for a project centered around software-defined networking. As a Cyber Software Co-op, I’m familiar with the OSI Model, the TCP/IP stack, and the various protocols that comprise the Internet. I also have experience configuring software development and isolated testing environments using VirtualBox. I’ve gained experience working in Python and C++, both of which could be useful for this project. And in terms of non-technical skills, I’ve spent time interacting with users to gather feedback. Our project will be successful if it provides an easy, streamlined user interface that makes setting up virtual networks effortless. This will require extensive user experience testing. Moreover, it will be important to write clear documentation and be able to explain in person how to use our product. Fortunately, I’ve delivered several major presentations while on co-op, including one at a developer conference.

I’m excited to be part of this project because we have an idea for a tool that could be used right now in high school and college classrooms. We want to create an application with a simple and intuitive graphical interface that allows users to just drag and drop the virtual machines they want into a network. Users won’t have to worry about handling files, choosing the right network configuration, or making sure DHCP is working. Once they spin up a network in minutes, they will be able to move on to more interesting subjects (pinging, sniffing traffic, traceroutes, etc). As someone who is fascinated by networking and protocols, in addition to how hardware virtualization works, this project will be a great learning opportunity.

Our approach will be to use Docker to create lightweight instances of virtual machine-like containers. Because traditional virtual machines require an entire emulated operating system, whereas Docker images don’t, our solution should be less memory intensive. Moreover, our solution should be easily deployable over a network, so central servers that a school owns can provide the storage. In terms of my accomplishments, I expect to contribute mostly to the code that handles the containers/virtual images. I also hope to learn from my teammates about best practices for software collaboration. Our work will be done once our solution allows students to create fully functional virtual machines that live on a remote server.

