My senior design project is about providing primary school educators with a tool to be able to teach networking and security fundamentals to their students. Right now, cloud computing is all the rage. Sadly it is financially inaccessible to some organizations. While many organizations don’t have the funds to create cloud networks, they do have existing hardware that is going unused. We want to bridge this gap using our tool. It needs to provide the functionality of creating virtual networks utilizing a user friendly web interface.

The UC CS Curriculum provided me with many skills to help navigate through my senior design project. Networks and Cloud Computing (CS4065) gave me the skills to understand networks in order to create virtual ones. Software Engineering (EECE3093C) taught me how to work on a software project with other engineers. Requirements Engineering (CS5127) showed me the importance of planning before you start implementing. Technical and Scientific Writing (ENGL4092) helped to improve my written communication skills. Finally User Interfaces (CS5167) let me develop my skills in understanding how to create user friendly interfaces.

The CS Curriculum was not the only thing that helped me to develop the skills needed to be successful in this senior design project. My co-ops gave me a ton of real work experience too! My time as a software engineering co-op at Intuit taught me all about the latest and greatest technologies. It also taught me about modern Javascript and front end development through working on Quickbooks Online. Working for Toyota as an Enterprise Architecture Co-op taught me about how to effectively communicate with others. I got the chance to lead multiple technical training classes across the country.

I am motivated to participate in this project for a few reasons. I want to use this as a chance to further practice and demonstrate my front end design skills. I also want to make a project that will be useful to others. Finally, I want to improve my teamwork skills within the realm of software engineering projects. In order to design a solution to our senior design problem, we are getting together with people who are facing the problem of limited access to emulated computer networks. We are asking them for their opinions on how this tool could best benefit them.

 I will be able to evaluate my contributions to this project by making sure the interface I help to design is actually user friendly and usable. I want to get opinions not only from my team but from the potential users of this software.We will be done when we create at least a prototype and are able to demonstrate it to our potential users. The expected results of our work will be a functioning prototype which can emulate virtual networks through an intuitive user interface. We will have done a good job if they find our project to be useful and intuitive. 
 
