# Assignment 3 - Noah Bass

Our project is Jolokia, an interactive web app and back-end system for education students on the fundamentals of networking and security. When high school students are introduced to the fundamentals of computing, it’s important to include the basics of networking and security. With our platform, students will gain better insight into the world of computing, networking, and security. Hopefully, with exposure to these concepts, our platform will open the door for a possible career for students in computer science. In order to complete this project and offer an educational platform, our project uses several core academic concepts. Included are software engineering, cloud computing, web development, UI/UX, and security.

Several courses have driven our decision to pursue this senior design project. My college curriculum experience has given me the chance to take courses that offer application-based experiences inside the classroom. Some courses that stand out are CS3003 Programming Languages, CS4065 Networking, EECE3093C Software Engineering, CS4092 Database Design, and CS5165 Cloud Computing. In Programming Languages, I was exposed to interesting and powerful concepts in computer programming, such as functional programming. When it came to building fundamental technical networking and security knowledge, the Networking course was helpful. The Software Engineering course was a great introduction into some technical and non-technical aspects of creating software in large scale settings. Finally, the Cloud Computing course gave us an introduction to core technical concepts in the ever growing and exciting field of cloud computing.

My co-op experiences have been diverse with numerous employers as software engineering co-ops. My first was with Siemens PLM Software where I was on a research and development team. The technical skills I  picked up on this co-op included web development and programming with C#. Later, I joined Astronomer, a data engineering company, for my second co-op. At Astronomer, I picked up technical skills to work with large amounts of data effectively with cloud computing and used software such as Node.js, Python, Docker, and Apache Airflow. Also, I learned some important non-technical skills such as project management and software engineering. In my next co-op at Intuit, I was on the TurboTax mobile app for iOS team. On this co-op, I learned skills in iOS programming, Swift and Objective-C, as well as Xcode. I also was able to hone my skills in software engineering and working interactively with a team. Finally, in my final co-op at Apple, I took my previous knowledge in cloud computing and Python to learn about big data analysis in order to gain insights from real-world systems data. With the senior design project, I expect to use many of the skills I picked up while on co-op, including software engineering on teams, project management, software design, C#, web development, and cloud computing. There are various technical and non-technical needs for our senior project, so I expect that my project management, design, and programming skills will come into play.

I’m excited to participate in this senior project for two core reasons. Firstly, it is a technical challenge that requires us as a group to use our collective experiences in a variety of different disciplines within computing. This includes areas such as network security to web design and UX/UI design. Secondly, this project can provide a meaningful impact and experience for the people that are our users of the project: educators and high school students. Our project is a platform that is free and open for people to better understand the fundamentals of networking and security in an interactive way. The education area opens up the potential for our senior project to make an impact on high school students and possibly propel students towards pursuing further topics in computer science.

In designing a solution, our project has three core components: an interactive, front-end web app, a back-end orchestrator for creating virtual machines (backed by containerization), and a back-end API for tracking state and bridging the gap between the web app and the back-end orchestrator. Our expected result is for high school students to engage and learn using our platform. Once all components of our design have been fully implemented + integrated and a demo is ready for use by real educators and high school students, we will know that our project is nearing completion. By having real educators and high school students interact with our software, we can take their feedback to create an even better platform. We will know whether or not we have done a good job based on the reactions and feedback from our users.
