High school students have difficulty understanding the complex system that is a computer network, from topologies, the OSI layers, or even it’s importance to them as future IT professionals. Our project is about creating a tool for teaching computer networking in a visual and interactive way. This parallels some of my previous coursework in the Computer Networks course. Most of the difficulty in computer networks come from visualizing the flow of traffic and the different manners in which the OSI layers interact. We believe better tooling can be created to help aid students comprehension of these topics.

Our team has all had very different development experiences over our college careers. From large household name software engineering to local software shops, each of us brings a unique perspective and a unique set of skills. Together we have total coverage of the stack from front to back. My work at Learn21 has given me a large set of tools for backend development. I learned about software architecture and had the chance to develop those skills be design an API from the ground up.

I have generally focused my coursework on industry relevant experience. Courses like Software Engineering (EECE 3093), Database Design (CS 4092), and Requirements Engineering(CS 5127) are great tools for a future career in industry. I expect to use my knowledge of requirements engineering and software engineering to help define the project and give us a strong documentation foundation. I believe that my experience in requirements engineering will help us define better goals and explore more of the possible solutions.

This project excites me for a few reasons. Firstly, I have always had an affinity for projects that contribute or focus on educational impact. Ever since using the online Khan Academy, I’ve been enamoured with online education and software. Education is one of the most valuable assets in the world and our internet driven future needs tools to help people access it. Secondly I’m excited by the team that I have to work with. We are all very skilled software engineers and I have no doubt in our ability to create a strong final product. Third, I’m excited to apply my knowledge of software architecture to a new project. I want to learn how to properly design a large scale system and effectively communicate that design with in a team.

Our initial project outline is to do field research by talking with educators and students about the difficulties they face when teaching and learning about networking. From there we will start to work on a set of requirements that will define all of the needs and desires we are trying to fill. After having a list of requirements to fulfill, we will start working on the different systems and services required to host and interact with our new system. Working in parallel we can mock the users experience out in the front end and the backfill functionality. I will judge my contribution based on peer feedback and deployability. This project will be complete when we are comfortable open-sourcing the MVP with a working front-end for users to tryout.
